Goal:

A platform for salespeople, designers and publishers to quickly and
easily view, create, edit and proof advertising placements across a
variety of media.

A portal for accurate reporting on performance, ad spend and revenue.


Core functionality:

Booking an ad.

Reporting.


Extra functionality:

Sales goals?
Invoicing?
Proofing tools? Approval, changes links?



The model:

Ad - print or digital advertising
  Has dimensions
  Costs cash money to run
  Belongs to an advertiser account, but could be assigned to another(?)
  Could be part of a wider advertising campaign
  Booked by someone
  Will run in some sort, or several publication(s)
  May have a special position (tags?)
  Could have special instructions - eg. must be on a right page
  Begins as an idea and goes through a creation, proof, approval process.
  Is advertising something - keywords maybe?
  Involves conversations, like between advertiser, sales rep and creative...comment section?
  Can be described using words

Campaign - an overarching organisation of several different sized/platform ads on a similar topic
  Is it necessary? Too complex?
  Could group together similar ads for publishers that have different platforms
  Extra complexity?
  OR it could be for longer lasting campaigns on the publishers side, such as tipping or shop & win promotions


Publisher - could be a newspaper, magazine, website or parish newsletter.
  Is called something
  Has places where ads can be shown, like pages, features or banners.
  Publishes regularly like a magazine or a newspaper, or is always published, such as a website.


USERS
  Have names and contact details
  Need to be able to log in and out
  Common tasks easy and obvious

Advertiser - someone that wants to run advertising
  Could be a business, an ad account or be a one off
  Intends to run at least one ad, but could run many
  Probably has a goal with their advertising, such as branding or sales
  Wants to make sure the ad is correct, or request changes.
  Is interested in the amount of money being spent
  Monthly invoice on the 20th?

Sales rep - people that aren't necessarily good with computers despite using them every day for their job
  Good at selling stuff, but usually not much else.
  Should be booking heaps of ads - the software power user.
  Probably have sales goals
  The liaison between the advertiser and creative
  Would like to know the amount of ads sold and revenue gathered

Creative - the talented ones
  Can generally understand complex ideas
  Doesn't want to spend time fucking with software (inDesign plugin?)
  Needs to be able to upload proofs and ask questions
  Stats on ads created?

Accounts - the bean counters
  Need to know if there are outstanding invoices
  Would be good to be able to tag accounts paid

Admin/the Boss - the person in charge of the platform, business or salespeople
  Needs an overview on revenue
  Would like to know how salespeople are performing.
  Comparisons between platforms and publications
  Trends over time
